### Pip, Dependencies & Requirements.txt

> In order to use "pip freeze" one must have all the project dependencies installed already? 

Yes, in order to use the pip freeze command, all the project dependencies must be installed already. The pip freeze command generates a list of all the packages installed in the current Python environment along with their version numbers, and it is typically used to generate a requirements.txt file for the project.

Therefore, if a required package is not installed in the Python environment, it will not appear in the output of pip freeze. In order to install packages listed in a requirements.txt file generated by pip freeze, you would typically use the pip install -r requirements.txt command, which installs all the packages listed in the file.

---
> Is there a way to create a requirements.txt of dependencies that need to be installed before they are installed, automatically through code inspection by some app ? 

Yes, there are several tools that can automatically inspect the dependencies of a Python project and generate a requirements.txt file for you.

One such tool is pipreqs, which scans the code of a given directory and its subdirectories, extracts all the import statements, and generates a requirements.txt file with the packages and their versions needed to run the code. You can install pipreqs using pip:

``` 
pip install pipreqs
```

To generate a requirements.txt file for your project, run the pipreqs command followed by the path to the directory containing your Python code:

```bash
pipreqs /path/to/your/project
```

pipreqs will scan the Python files in the specified directory and generate a requirements.txt file containing all the packages needed to run the code.

Another tool is pipdeptree, which generates a tree-like representation of the dependencies of a Python project and their versions. You can install pipdeptree using pip:

```
pip install pipdeptree
```

To generate a requirements.txt file for your project, you can use pipdeptree in combination with grep and cut to extract only the package names and versions:

```bash
pipdeptree | grep -E '^\w+' | cut -d'=' -f1 > requirements.txt
```

This command will generate a requirements.txt file containing only the package names and versions needed to run your code.

Note that these tools are not perfect and may generate a requirements.txt file that includes more packages than you actually need or that includes incompatible package versions. It's always a good idea to manually review and edit the requirements.txt file before using it to install packages.



